Title: China imposes retaliatory tariffs on US goods including coal, crude oil, and large cars
Description: The Ministry of Finance said it would impose tariffs on coal,  liquefied natural gas crude oil, agricultural machinery, large cars, and pickup trucks.
URL: https://www.businessinsider.com/china-tariffs-trump-canada-mexico-trade-war-2025-2

Content:
China retaliates with tariffs on some US goods and a probe into Google China hit back at President Donald Trump's trade plan on Tuesday morning with two tiers of tariffs on American goods. China's Ministry of Finance said the country would impose a 15% tariff on coal and liquefied natural gas and a 10% tariff on crude oil, agricultural machinery, and some vehicles. The announcement came days after Trump said he would put a 10% tariff on all Chinese imported products, building on his campaign promise of a robust tariff policy. In a statement announcing China's tariffs, the Ministry of Finance said the US's moves violated World Trade Organization rules. "It is not only unhelpful in solving its own problems, but also disrupts the normal economic and trade cooperation between China and the US," the statement said. The tariffs are set to go into effect on Monday. Chinese authorities also announced an investigation into Google and put PVH Corp. — Calvin Klein's parent company — and Illumina, a US biotech firm, on its "unreliable entities list." The country's State Administration for Market Regulation said in its announcement that Google violated antitrust laws. The regulator did not provide further details. Meanwhile, China's Ministry of Commerce said PVH and Illumina took "discriminatory measures against Chinese companies" and "seriously damaged" the legitimate rights and interests of Chinese firms. A PVH spokesperson said in a statement that the company would continue working with authorities, seeking a resolution. "We are surprised and deeply disappointed to learn of the decision from the Chinese Ministry of Commerce. In our 20 years of operating in China and proudly serving our consumers, as a matter of policy, PVH maintains strict compliance with all relevant laws and regulations and operates in line with established industry standards and practices," the PVH statement said. Google declined to comment. Illumina did not respond to a request for comment. A Google spokesperson told BI the company had no further details to provide. Separately, China's Ministry of Commerce and its customs administration announced export controls on strategic metals and minerals, including tungsten-related materials and bismuth-related materials, to "safeguard national security interests." The US needs to 'solve its own fentanyl issue' Trump has said his tariffs are a mechanism to hold China, Mexico, and Canada accountable for what he views as their roles in the illegal flow of fentanyl into the US. The president said China was "sending fentanyl to Mexico and Canada" and worsening the fentanyl crisis in the US. On the campaign trail last year, he suggested a 60% tariff on China. China has said fentanyl is the US's own problem and that Beijing would challenge the tariffs at the World Trade Organization. "The US needs to view and solve its own fentanyl issue in an objective and rational way instead of threatening other countries with arbitrary tariff hikes," a Chinese Ministry of Foreign Affairs spokesperson said Sunday. Vishnu Varathan, Mizuho's head of macro research for Asia excluding Japan, wrote in a Tuesday note that China's tariff move "ups the ante on an escalatory tit-for-tat trade conflict." Trump has also placed 25% tariffs on Canada and Mexico — but later delayed the measures until March after reaching agreements to strengthen border protections with Mexican President Claudia Sheinbaum and Canadian Prime Minister Justin Trudeau. Cutting a deal with China may be harder. "The overarching geo-economic dimensions to US-China trade means that resolution will be far more fraught than is the case with Mexico and Canada," Varathan wrote. Trump's approach to trade with China echoes that of his first term in office. Throughout 2018 and 2019, the president placed tariffs on hundreds of billions of dollars' worth of Chinese products, including tech equipment and plastics. In 2019, China responded by placing 10% retaliatory tariffs on $75 billion of US imports. Some lawmakers and billionaires have urged the president to rethink his tariff plan, saying that it will cost small businesses and American consumers. China is a major producer of US electronics, and it's likely that cellphones, laptops, and other devices will become more expensive. The White House did not immediately respond to a request. Read next Recommended video Jump to